In the last lecture I've explained how we can create traits to put the common functionality of our models
into a specific trade that we can then reuse on many models.
And I've explained that on the built in larval self deletes trade.
So we are talking about booting to specify some events on a model and also how other methods can override
the default model methods.
So let's close that us.
Now it's time to actually create our own trade so inside the up namespace let's create a new folder
called it traits and then we'll create our new file and call it targetable peach B.
So we have to start with the BJP tag.
Specify the namespace which is up traits and define our new trait called tag Aboul
now since every trait that is being used within a class will add some methods to it.
If they don't exist or override them and this applies also to fields what we can do is actually you
can see that we have exactly the same code for defining the tax relationship on both the blog post and
the comment.
So what we can do is we can move this to a trade.
So now we have this tax method on a trade and instead of redefining this on a model will remove this
from both.
Comment and blog post
save the changes and what we will do instead is you will just use taxable make sure you have other the
import here to the app trade stack of all and basically now we have tax relationship defined on blog
post and if we'll use that in comments too.
We also have it now to make sure that it works.
Let's see our application if it still works.
So let's go to the browser refresh and you can see that everything works perfectly.
So what we have done is now the tax relationship is defined inside this straight target ball and to
fully see the benefit of doing things like that.
Let's imagine that you need to add tax to videos to images to blog posts to comments to any other models
that you might have inside your application.
Now everything that you need to do is just use that targetable trait and they have this relationship.
So it's kind of magical.
Now we have this relationship defined.
But that's not really powerful.
It doesn't really take much for us to really put this tax method on all of those models.
The biggest feature of actually defining this huggable trait is that every model that has the content
field will actually have all the tax associated whenever and whenever they are created or updated.
So let's see how we can do that to actually find tax inside the content we'll use regular expressions
so you can head to this website where we can test our regular expressions to see if they work.
So first let's go to any blog post copy its content.
So this is where we will look for something and here will specify our regular expression pattern that
we will use to find any talks that are inside the content.
So let's assume that we can add tags by using the sign and the tag name.
So let's say we want to tag this with science sport and politics.
And now how do we find that so everything should start with ET sign.
But what does it give us.
Is it's only matching the ad signs.
We actually need to find the content between those two ad signs so we can do that by specifying a group
of characters to exclude so we do that using this character inside square brackets.
So we are saying find me everything starting with ET sign then find all the characters except X at sine
but to find the whole target name.
We need a plus.
So this with the plus means find one or more.
Now you can see that we are matching something but there are too many matches.
And what we actually have to do is we have to close that with another ad sign.
So now you also see the full explanation on the right of what is happening.
If you do not know much about regular expressions I invite you to read the BHP documentation about that.
But let's go through it again.
So what we wants to achieve is since we do not know what tag names are possible and we do not want to
fetch them from database right now yet at least what we will do is we search for it sign then any characters
that are different than at sign this will match all the content between the ad signs and this has to
be one character or longer since the plus modifier.
And then we finish up with another at sign.
Now if you take a look on the right side on the much information box you can see that we are matching
the tag names along with the ad signs that are just used to denote the tag to be used.
And we do not actually want this ad signs to be included.
So we can create a group and end closing with their parentheses and now what we see is actually a full
match including the ad signs and our group which is actually the tag name.
So not that we know how the regular expression should look like.
Now let's actually use that.
So we will define our static method inside our target all trade.
We will cold up find tags in content.
This accepts one parameter the content
I forgot the function.
That's why it is red OK.
Now to find all the accurate occurrences inside a string using our regular expression we will use preg
match all BHP function where first you have to specify a pattern so let's see what our pattern is.
So let's copy it from here.
So select everything and just copy it.
Now you also have to enclose it with slash and add M modifier
so slash at the beginning slash at the end and the M modifier.
Now the second parameter is the subject we would like to look inside which is content.
And now the first parameter is actually our reference to an array in which it will return everything
that it has found so let's use a tags variable for that.
Now how this works is that pretty much all will create an array where the index the first index zero
will contain everything that was matched.
So it will contain full matches and add index 1.
It will contain all the group matches.
So we'll have it science sport and politics inside so what we can do actually is to fetch all the tax
with the given names we can return.
Tag this is our model up tag.
So make sure you add that import that we will create a query using were in and we want to find tags
by name so we specify that we want to find tags using name column and the parameters would be tax using
index 1.
So this tags one should contain everything from the group matches.
So science sport and politics.
In this example now we have to make sure that we actually have anything found.
So we use this peach be new operator that came up with BHP seven and what this does is if this is specified
and not empty.
So when the tax array is field and has index 1 then just take the value.
Otherwise use the value on the right which is in our case would be an empty array.
Now this will actually create a query where we'll select everything from tag using name and we'll fetch
all the stocks that have the names that we have found using our regular expression.
So finally we have to call get to actually execute this query.
Now having this method what now we can do is we can create a protected static function.
As I've explained before we'll create a method that will put this straight.
So the same as it.
It is done inside the self delete straight so we can do that either protect her all or public.
So we need to add boot and the trade name.
So let's do that boot target targetable
and now we have access to everything that we can specify on the model itself.
So on the blog post we have added some events for that model.
And now what we will do is we'll specify some events but they will be applied to older models that are
using this straight.
So first there is an updating event.
This will receive an instance of the models.
So in this situation we already have a model that is being updated.
And another one is static created
so not is that here we are using updating because we already have an idea of the model.
And the second event we are not using creating but created because we will need the actual idea of that
model.
And at this point when the creative event is being dispatched there is not not an idea of the model
associated because this is actually fired because the model before the model is stored inside the database.
Now let's see the magic.
So we have a model since it is using the tag of all trade it has the tax relationship.
So we do tags and then if you remember how we can associate some elements in the many to many relationship
if you do not just go back to the lecture about many to many relationship we can use the sink method.
So will this what this will do to replace older relationships that this model actually has we have a
new set of relationships.
So now another magic we do static to call our find tax in content method and why we are calling it with
static is because there are static and instance methods.
If we are calling something on the static method which would taxable is and have to be we have to use
that you will have to access and.
Well actually we only can access static methods inside a static method.
So this is why we created this method as a static one.
Now if you do not remember those double semicolons is how you access static members of a class.
So this is for instance methods.
And this is for static methods and static is just a keyword which relates to the actual class so we
do static find docs in content and seems we know that models have to have a content field what this
will do is this will return all the attacks with the given name that were found inside the content and
mobile tax sink will actually associate those stocks to the model so the create that is actually the
same now save the changes and what we can do right now is if you make sure that the ball is being used
on block post and comment let's immediately go ahead and create a new blog post that will have some
tax.
So let's see maybe politics and entertainment.
Notice that the most recent post does has some tags but we haven't added any because we refresh the
database.
So first we have to log in of course.
Now let's specify some title and the content.
This is another blog post and then we can up tags like this science and sport so they start with Ed
sign and they end with AD sign.
Now you press create and magic.
You can see that we have those stocks associated.
If I modified his blog post and I change it to enter tainment or maybe something simpler like politics
update Well apparently there is no politics stuck or I've missed it.
So let's modify this again so sport or economy.
This definitely exists and you can see that I have those stocks.
Now if you will check the database inside Tiger balls you can see that this was added to the Taco Bell
I.D. blog post 51 that I have just created and there are the tag I.D. here.
And of course the tiger Bowl type.
Now let's see another magic.
So I will add a comment oh no this is not sport it's actually let's say Pauly tics.
Now I've added a comment and let's see the database and what you can see now is that tag was actually
associated to this comment.
There is the tag about I.D. 301.
This would make sense.
It's the comment I.D. the tag a ball type is the comment but there are no tags displayed on that yet.
So let's display something.
Fortunately we have our comment list comment components sorry.
And what we can do is if you will also find a view for displaying posts let's say this one.
We have our tax component which for which you only have to pass the tax related.
So let's copy that.
And now for every comment what we will do is we'll display tax but not from post but from that comment
refresh and what you can see is that I've added a comment which now has a tag and it's just magical.
It whole it all has happened thanks to this tiger trade not automatically is creating tax based on the
content using this simple regular expression matching and then finding those tanks inside the database
by name and finally using sink to associate all those stocks and also replace any or any other that
were old.
So let's try that again.
I will post another comment.
Maybe it's actually sport and economy and voila you have you have tax associated with our comment.
Obviously there are some problems right now with our application so I just wanted to show you how to
do certain things.
It doesn't really matter how that looks in our up because this really doesn't work the way we might
expect at this point having tax for both blog posts and comments when we pressed attack we might want
to go to some TAC page where we'll see all the blog posts and tax from this sorry the blog posts and
comments from this stock and we only see all the blog posts that are associated to this tag.
So this of course can be fixed later.
And now it's actually very easy to do but just so you see how powerful lower level is and how nice thinks
we can create and how easy that actually is to do stuff that we can later reuse in our applications.